ALBATROSS KOUKAIROKU — MAO ENGLISH PATCH v1.0.0

2026-10-07 crash hotfix: English story preprocessing is now independent of
the Windows system code page, and its temporary buffer has been enlarged for
the longest translated passages. Re-download and rerun this installer if you
already installed v1.0.0; keep MAO-original-backup in place.

2026-10-07 UI hotfix: Stop Voice now correctly reads On (left), Off (right),
matching the Japanese あり / なし buttons. Re-download and rerun this installer
to update an initial v1.0.0 installation; keep MAO-original-backup in place.

Requires your installed Japanese DVD retail copy (2010-07-23), with exact
matching Albatross.exe, scr.xfl, grpo.xfl and grps.xfl. Other editions and
other English patches are not supported. This download is not the game.

INSTALL
1. Install the Japanese game normally and close it.
2. Extract this ZIP to a separate folder. Keep every included file together.
3. Install Python 3 if needed. On Windows, double-click Install English Patch.cmd
   and enter the installed game folder. Do not select the MDF/MDS or DVD folder.
   Alternatively run: python3 install_patch.py "path/to/installed/game"
4. Start the game's Albatross.exe normally.

The installer checks the edition and every output checksum before replacing
files. Original game files are retained in MAO-original-backup inside the game
folder. Saves and preferences are not replaced. Reinstalling this exact patch
is safe. Keep the backup folder for restoring the Japanese version.

RESTORE JAPANESE
Close the game, then run:
python3 install_patch.py "path/to/installed/game" --uninstall
Saves are left untouched; the bundled font is retained in the backup folder.

FEATURES
Complete English story script; translated settings, title/Extras buttons,
save/load titles, chapter labels, confirmations and window title. IBM Plex Mono
Regular throughout. Left-aligned horizontal story text with word wrapping,
authored line breaks, and Small/Medium/Large reflow into a fixed safe area.
Original voice and scenario-control bytecode is preserved. Font/direction
controls are locked; Japanese ruby annotations are absent from English text.

The reported opening-cabin crash transition is reproduced and fixed in the
native-code regression harness under Japanese and Western code-page rules.

FONT
The installer places IBM Plex Mono beside the game in Fonts. The patched game
loads it privately for its own process; no system-wide font installation or
administrator access is required. Its SIL Open Font License is included.

COMPATIBILITY / QA
Tested locally with the project's isolated Wine environment on macOS, including
opening-scene play, settings, save/load, wrapping, three-size reflow, and the
reported long-page truncation regression. Native Windows and a full-game
playthrough have not been verified. Original voice control is preserved;
this is not a claim that every voice's audible timing has been tested.

This patch is for an existing game installation. No standalone Mac application
or Wine runtime is included; the local development wrapper is not distributed.
Japanese saves may cache old glyph/layout state. Begin a new English game;
back up existing saves before experimenting with cross-language checkpoints.

Original game: raiL-soft. Translation project: MAO Translations.
Bundled font: IBM Plex Mono by IBM, SIL Open Font License 1.1.
Project and online reader: https://mao-tls.github.io/albatross-koukairoku/
